doc/source/AddingTestPackages.rst, before:

.. _Add_Test_Packages:

Adding test packages (chaining environments)
********************************************

Releases of spack-stack are deployed quarterly on supported platforms. Between releases, additional packages may be installed through the following steps, which make use of Spack's environment chaining capabilities. This allows parts of the stack to be replaced while leaving the release environment untouched.

To install in an additional environment within an official spack-stack space, simply ``cd`` into the appropriate spack-stack root directory and run ``. setup.sh`` before continuing to the following steps. To create a chained environment in a personal space outside of an official installation, it is recommended that you use the same spack-stack release as the one from which you wish to use an upstream environment. For instance, if you are targeting an environment installed under ``spack-stack-1.4.1/``, then use ``git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/jcsda/spack-stack -b release/1.4.1`` to set up your installation, then in the newly created spack-stack directory run ``. setup.sh`` and proceed with the following steps. The following steps install a hypothetical new version of NetCDF C on Hera that also rebuilds all of its dependencies for the UFS Weather Model. Note that it is recommended to use one or more `meta-modules <https://github.com/JCSDA/spack/tree/jcsda_emc_spack_stack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc-bundles/packages>`_ (e.g., 'ufs-weather-model-env') in the spec as opposed to only providing specific packages, as using the meta-modules will ensure that all of the module files needed from the upstream environment for a given application are copied into the downstream environment by the module refresh command.

.. code-block:: bash

    spack stack create env --name netcdf-test --template empty --site hera --upstream /scratch1/NCEPDEV/nems/role.epic/spack-stack/spack-stack-1.4.1/envs/unified-env/install [--upstream /path/to/second/install] [--modify-pkg netcdf-c]
    cd envs/netcdf-test
    spack env activate .
    spack add ufs-weather-model-env%intel ^netcdf-c@5.0.0
    spack concretize 2>&1 | tee log.concretize
    spack install 2>&1 | tee log.install
    spack module lmod refresh --upstream-modules
    spack stack setup-meta-modules

To use the environment, access it in the same way as a regular spack-stack installation, i.e., add the directory provided by ``spack stack setup-meta-modules`` ending with '/modulefiles/Core' to your MODULEPATH variable. This will give access to the upstream modules needed while avoiding package conflicts; do not use the upstream environment in ``$MODULEPATH`` directly.

.. note::
   The ``--upstream`` option for the ``spack stack create env`` command adds a specified Spack/spack-stack installation path as an upstream environment in the resulting spack.yaml, and can be invoked multiple times in order to include multiple upstream environments. The command will *give a warning but not fail* if an invalid directory is provided (either because it does not end with the typical ``install`` directory name, or because it does not exist). Be mindful of these warnings, and if the path does not exist, check for typos and make sure that you are using the path for the correct system from the table in :numref:`Section %s <Preconfigured_Sites>`.

.. note::
   The ``--modify-pkg`` option for the ``spack stack create env`` command should be used by spack-stack maintainers whenever a package recipe needs to be modified for between-release deployments (i.e., chained environments that live in an official spack-stack release), such as when a new version, variant, or patch needs to be added. This option creates a separate, custom Spack repo specific to the environment being created, and lives under that environment's directory structure (i.e., ``$SPACK_ENV/envrepo/``). It requires the name of the package to be customized, and can be invoked multiple times to customize multiple packages. Each package specified will be copied into the custom repo, and the environment's repo configuration will be automatically updated to use those custom copies. It is important to use this option in order to avoid contaminating or breaking the existing installation.

.. note::
   More details on chaining spack environments and a few words of caution can be found in the  `Spack documentation <https://spack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/chain.html?highlight=chaining%20spack%20installations>`_. Those words of caution need to be taken seriously, especially those referring to not deleting modulefiles and dependencies in the upstream spack environment (if having permissions to do so)!

Commit message:

Remove unused options from "spack stack" extension and add logic to set compiler for "spack stack create env" (#1192)
This PR removes unused options for the "spack stack" extension in an order to clean up the amount of code and facilitate adding the new capability described below.

The new capability requires the user to define a compiler --compiler when running spack stack create env. It further updates the logic for creating common and site environment spack config files for modules and packages. For both common and site configs (in configs/common/ and configs/sites/tier?/*/), the following is true:

- For packages: If both packages.yaml and packages_${COMPILER}.yaml exist in the same directory, merge the two (packages_${COMPILER}.yaml overrides packages.yaml if necessary) and write to the environment's common or site config as packages.yaml. See for example the updated blackpearl site config in this PR. If only one of them exists, copy that file to the destination.
- For modules: If both modules.yaml and packages_${LUA_OR_LMOD}.yaml exist in the same directory, merge the two (packages_${LUA_OR_LMOD}.yaml overrides modules.yaml if necessary) and write to the environment's common or site config as modules.yaml. This is currently not the case, but maybe we can consolidate some of the contents into one default modules.yaml file?

In the environment spack.yaml, update the compiler definition line for the matrix (if applicable) and set packages:all:require:['%COMPILER']. This requires that packages that must be built with other compilers (e.g. gcc-runtime) have their own require: '%COMPILER' setting to overwrite this. This is already the case for gcc-runtime in configs/common/packages.yaml. The same may be needed for other runtime packages for each of the compilers in the future, and for packages like bison that don't build with oneapi for example. I am basically following what E4S does.

doc/source/AddingTestPackages.rst, after:

.. _Add_Test_Packages:

Adding test packages (chaining environments)
********************************************

Releases of spack-stack are deployed quarterly on supported platforms. Between releases, additional packages may be installed through the following steps, which make use of Spack's environment chaining capabilities. This allows parts of the stack to be replaced while leaving the release environment untouched.

To install in an additional environment within an official spack-stack space, simply ``cd`` into the appropriate spack-stack root directory and run ``. setup.sh`` before continuing to the following steps. To create a chained environment in a personal space outside of an official installation, it is recommended that you use the same spack-stack release as the one from which you wish to use an upstream environment. For instance, if you are targeting an environment installed under ``spack-stack-1.4.1/``, then use ``git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/jcsda/spack-stack -b release/1.4.1`` to set up your installation, then in the newly created spack-stack directory run ``. setup.sh`` and proceed with the following steps. The following steps install a hypothetical new version of NetCDF C on Hera that also rebuilds all of its dependencies for the UFS Weather Model. Note that it is recommended to use one or more `meta-modules <https://github.com/JCSDA/spack/tree/jcsda_emc_spack_stack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc-bundles/packages>`_ (e.g., 'ufs-weather-model-env') in the spec as opposed to only providing specific packages, as using the meta-modules will ensure that all of the module files needed from the upstream environment for a given application are copied into the downstream environment by the module refresh command. Make sure to use the same compiler as the upstream environment.

.. code-block:: bash

    spack stack create env --name netcdf-test --template empty --site hera --compiler gcc \
        --upstream /scratch1/NCEPDEV/nems/role.epic/spack-stack/spack-stack-1.4.1/envs/ue-gcc/install [--upstream /path/to/second/install] [--modify-pkg netcdf-c]
    cd envs/netcdf-test
    spack env activate .
    spack add ufs-weather-model-env%intel ^netcdf-c@5.0.0
    spack concretize 2>&1 | tee log.concretize
    spack install 2>&1 | tee log.install
    spack module lmod refresh --upstream-modules
    spack stack setup-meta-modules

To use the environment, access it in the same way as a regular spack-stack installation, i.e., add the directory provided by ``spack stack setup-meta-modules`` ending with '/modulefiles/Core' to your MODULEPATH variable. This will give access to the upstream modules needed while avoiding package conflicts; do not use the upstream environment in ``$MODULEPATH`` directly.

.. note::
   The ``--upstream`` option for the ``spack stack create env`` command adds a specified Spack/spack-stack installation path as an upstream environment in the resulting spack.yaml, and can be invoked multiple times in order to include multiple upstream environments. The command will *give a warning but not fail* if an invalid directory is provided (either because it does not end with the typical ``install`` directory name, or because it does not exist). Be mindful of these warnings, and if the path does not exist, check for typos and make sure that you are using the path for the correct system from the table in :numref:`Section %s <Preconfigured_Sites>`.

.. note::
   The ``--modify-pkg`` option for the ``spack stack create env`` command should be used by spack-stack maintainers whenever a package recipe needs to be modified for between-release deployments (i.e., chained environments that live in an official spack-stack release), such as when a new version, variant, or patch needs to be added. This option creates a separate, custom Spack repo specific to the environment being created, and lives under that environment's directory structure (i.e., ``$SPACK_ENV/envrepo/``). It requires the name of the package to be customized, and can be invoked multiple times to customize multiple packages. Each package specified will be copied into the custom repo, and the environment's repo configuration will be automatically updated to use those custom copies. It is important to use this option in order to avoid contaminating or breaking the existing installation.

.. note::
   More details on chaining spack environments and a few words of caution can be found in the  `Spack documentation <https://spack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/chain.html?highlight=chaining%20spack%20installations>`_. Those words of caution need to be taken seriously, especially those referring to not deleting modulefiles and dependencies in the upstream spack environment (if having permissions to do so)!
