doc/source/CreatingEnvironments.rst, before:

.. _CreatingEnvironment:

Creating and installing new environments
****************************************

The following instructions are a simplified version of the instructions found in :numref:`Sections %s <NewSiteConfigs_macOS>` and :numref:`%s <NewSiteConfigs_Linux>`, and should work for systems where spack-stack already has a site configuration, or where minimal configuration is necessary. For more detailed instructions, including how to generate new site configurations and more details of when and how to use external packages, see :numref:`Sections %s <NewSiteConfigs_macOS>` and :numref:`%s <NewSiteConfigs_Linux>`. To chain a new Spack environment to an existing one, such as to test a new package version based on dependencies already installed in the upstream environment, see :numref:`%s <Add_Test_Packages>`.

Note that items in "<>" should be replaced with the appropriate values (site names, etc.), and items in '[]' are optional. *<site name>* and *<template name>* must match the names of directories found under 'configs/sites/' and 'configs/templates/', respectively; *<environment name>* is a user-chosen name for the Spack environment. *<path to spack-stack directory>* is the root directory created by cloning the spack-stack GitHub repository, which contains 'configs/', 'doc/', 'setup.sh', 'util/', etc.

.. code-block:: console

   # To generate a new spack-stack directory structure, run 'git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/JCSDA/spack-stack',
   # optionally with, e.g., '-b release/1.4.1' to specify the version

   . <path to spack-stack directory>/setup.sh

   spack stack create env --site <site name> --template <template name> --name <environment name>

   cd ${SPACK_STACK_DIR}/envs/<environment name>/

   spack env activate .

   # If not using an existing site configuration, you may wish to modify config files and/or populate them using commands
   # such as 'spack external find' and 'spack compiler find'.
   # See https://spack-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorial_configuration.html

   spack concretize 2>&1 | tee log.concretize

   spack install [--verbose] [--fail-fast] 2>&1 | tee log.install

   spack module lmod refresh

   spack stack setup-meta-modules

.. note::
   By default, the ``spack stack create env`` command will use the specified site to determine whether to use the tcl-based (configs/common/modules_tcl.yaml) or the Lmod-based (configs/common/modules_lmod.yaml) module configuration. To override this behavior, use the ``--modulesys {tcl,lmod}`` argument to that command to specify which to use.

Commit message:

Remove unused options from "spack stack" extension and add logic to set compiler for "spack stack create env" (#1192)
This PR removes unused options for the "spack stack" extension in an order to clean up the amount of code and facilitate adding the new capability described below.

The new capability requires the user to define a compiler --compiler when running spack stack create env. It further updates the logic for creating common and site environment spack config files for modules and packages. For both common and site configs (in configs/common/ and configs/sites/tier?/*/), the following is true:

- For packages: If both packages.yaml and packages_${COMPILER}.yaml exist in the same directory, merge the two (packages_${COMPILER}.yaml overrides packages.yaml if necessary) and write to the environment's common or site config as packages.yaml. See for example the updated blackpearl site config in this PR. If only one of them exists, copy that file to the destination.
- For modules: If both modules.yaml and packages_${LUA_OR_LMOD}.yaml exist in the same directory, merge the two (packages_${LUA_OR_LMOD}.yaml overrides modules.yaml if necessary) and write to the environment's common or site config as modules.yaml. This is currently not the case, but maybe we can consolidate some of the contents into one default modules.yaml file?

In the environment spack.yaml, update the compiler definition line for the matrix (if applicable) and set packages:all:require:['%COMPILER']. This requires that packages that must be built with other compilers (e.g. gcc-runtime) have their own require: '%COMPILER' setting to overwrite this. This is already the case for gcc-runtime in configs/common/packages.yaml. The same may be needed for other runtime packages for each of the compilers in the future, and for packages like bison that don't build with oneapi for example. I am basically following what E4S does.

doc/source/CreatingEnvironments.rst, after:

.. _CreatingEnvironment:

Creating and installing new environments
****************************************

The following instructions are a simplified version of the instructions found in :numref:`Sections %s <NewSiteConfigs_macOS>` and :numref:`%s <NewSiteConfigs_Linux>`, and should work for systems where spack-stack already has a site configuration, or where minimal configuration is necessary. For more detailed instructions, including how to generate new site configurations and more details of when and how to use external packages, see :numref:`Sections %s <NewSiteConfigs_macOS>` and :numref:`%s <NewSiteConfigs_Linux>`. To chain a new Spack environment to an existing one, such as to test a new package version based on dependencies already installed in the upstream environment, see :numref:`%s <Add_Test_Packages>`.

Note that items in "<>" should be replaced with the appropriate values (site names, etc.), and items in '[]' are optional. *<site name>* and *<template name>* must match the names of directories found under 'configs/sites/' and 'configs/templates/', respectively; *<environment name>* is a user-chosen name for the Spack environment. *<path to spack-stack directory>* is the root directory created by cloning the spack-stack GitHub repository, which contains 'configs/', 'doc/', 'setup.sh', 'util/', etc.

.. code-block:: console

   # To generate a new spack-stack directory structure, run 'git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/JCSDA/spack-stack',
   # optionally with, e.g., '-b release/1.4.1' to specify the version

   . <path to spack-stack directory>/setup.sh

   spack stack create env --site <site name> --template <template name> --name <environment name> --compiler <compiler>

   cd ${SPACK_STACK_DIR}/envs/<environment name>/

   spack env activate .

   # If not using an existing site configuration, you may wish to modify config files and/or populate them using commands
   # such as 'spack external find' and 'spack compiler find'.
   # See https://spack-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorial_configuration.html

   spack concretize 2>&1 | tee log.concretize

   spack install [--verbose] [--fail-fast] 2>&1 | tee log.install

   spack module lmod refresh

   spack stack setup-meta-modules

.. note::
   Depending on the site configuration, ``tcl`` may be used instead of ``lmod`` modules. Check ``envs/<environment name>/site/modules.yaml`` and replace ``lmod`` with ``tcl`` if necessary in ``spack module lmod refresh``.
