doc/source/Environments.rst, before:

.. _Environments:

Constructing Environments
*************************

This section describes the environments (environment specs) defined in ``spack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc-bundles/packages``, additional packages available in the JCSDA/NOAA-EMC spack fork, as well as pre-defined application templates and container recipes.

Environments can be constructed in two ways in spack-stack:

1. Start with an empty template, ``spack stack create env --template=empty`` or just ``spack stack create env`` without specifying a template.

    - Configure the environment as shown in :numref:`Sections %s <NewSiteConfigs>`.

    - Add spack packages (also referred to as ``specs``) to the environment using ``spack add``. These packages can be virtual environments described in :numref:`Section %s <EnvironmentsVirtualPackages>` below, or individual packages, e.g. ``esmf`` or ``atlas``. Examples:

        .. code-block:: console

           spack add netcdf-c@4.7.4
           spack add ufs-weather-model-env
           spack add ufs-weather-model-env@1.0.0 +debug
           spack add ewok-env
           spack add mapl@2.12.3 +debug ^esmf@8.3.0 +debug
           spack add mapl@2.12.3 +debug ^esmf@8.3.0 +debug
           ...

2. Use a non-empty template to automatically populate the environment with a vetted combination of packages. See :numref:`Section %s <EnvironmentsTemplates>` for a description of the available templates. Note that additional packages can be added to the templated environment as in the previous step after activating the environment. Example:

    .. code-block:: console

       spack stack create env --template=skylab-1.0.0
       ...
       cd envs/env-name
       spack env activate .
       ...
       spack add jedi-tools-env@1.0.0

.. _EnvironmentsAdditionalPackages:

-------------------
Additional packages
-------------------

Packages that are available in the JCSDA/NOAA-EMC spack fork, but not (yet) in the authoritative spack repository are defined in ``spack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc/packages/``. Users are encouraged to run ``spack info <packagename>`` or open the files in an ASCII editor for more information.

**WORK IN PROGRESS**

**AUTOMATICALLY GENERATE A TABLE WITH NAME AND DESCRIPTION BASED ON THE FILE NAME AND THE DOXSTRING? IF WE DO THAT, ALSO UPDATE THE SECTION ON GENERATING DOCUMENTATION WITH THE NECESSARY DETAILS**

**For now, check the contents of ``spack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc/packages/`` yourself, sorry. Also, run ``spack info ecmwf-atlas``, for example, to obtain further information on the package.**

.. _EnvironmentsVirtualPackages:

----------------
Virtual packages
----------------

The purpose of virtual packages is to provide a convenient collection of packages for a given application. These packages are defined in ``spack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc-bundles/packages/``. Currently available virtual packages are:

**WORK IN PROGRESS**

**AUTOMATICALLY GENERATE A TABLE WITH NAME AND DESCRIPTION BASED ON THE FILE NAME AND THE DOXSTRING? IF WE DO THAT, ALSO UPDATE THE SECTION ON GENERATING DOCUMENTATION WITH THE NECESSARY DETAILS**

**For now, check the contents of ``spack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc-bundles/packages/`` yourself, sorry. Also, run ``spack info ewok-env``, for example, to obtain further information on the package.**

.. _EnvironmentsTemplates:

---------
Templates
---------

Templates are vetted combinations of packages, i.e. these have been tested to build together. Templates are defined in ``configs/templates/``. Currently available templates are:

**WORK IN PROGRESS**

**AUTOMATICALLY GENERATE A TABLE WITH NAME AND DESCRIPTION BASED ON THE FILE NAME AND THE SPECS IN THE TEMPLATE? IF WE DO THAT, ALSO UPDATE THE SECTION ON GENERATING DOCUMENTATION WITH THE NECESSARY DETAILS**

**For now, check the contents of ``configs/templates/`` yourself, sorry.**

.. _EnvironmentsContainers:

Commit message:

Remove unused options from "spack stack" extension and add logic to set compiler for "spack stack create env" (#1192)
This PR removes unused options for the "spack stack" extension in an order to clean up the amount of code and facilitate adding the new capability described below.

The new capability requires the user to define a compiler --compiler when running spack stack create env. It further updates the logic for creating common and site environment spack config files for modules and packages. For both common and site configs (in configs/common/ and configs/sites/tier?/*/), the following is true:

- For packages: If both packages.yaml and packages_${COMPILER}.yaml exist in the same directory, merge the two (packages_${COMPILER}.yaml overrides packages.yaml if necessary) and write to the environment's common or site config as packages.yaml. See for example the updated blackpearl site config in this PR. If only one of them exists, copy that file to the destination.
- For modules: If both modules.yaml and packages_${LUA_OR_LMOD}.yaml exist in the same directory, merge the two (packages_${LUA_OR_LMOD}.yaml overrides modules.yaml if necessary) and write to the environment's common or site config as modules.yaml. This is currently not the case, but maybe we can consolidate some of the contents into one default modules.yaml file?

In the environment spack.yaml, update the compiler definition line for the matrix (if applicable) and set packages:all:require:['%COMPILER']. This requires that packages that must be built with other compilers (e.g. gcc-runtime) have their own require: '%COMPILER' setting to overwrite this. This is already the case for gcc-runtime in configs/common/packages.yaml. The same may be needed for other runtime packages for each of the compilers in the future, and for packages like bison that don't build with oneapi for example. I am basically following what E4S does.

doc/source/Environments.rst, after:

.. _Environments:

Constructing Environments
*************************

This section describes the environments (environment specs) defined in ``spack/var/spack/repos/jcsda-emc-bundles/packages``, additional packages available in the JCSDA/NOAA-EMC spack fork, as well as pre-defined application templates and container recipes.

Environments can be constructed in two ways in spack-stack:

1. Start with an empty template, ``spack stack create env --template=empty --compiler=<compiler>`` or just ``spack stack create env --compiler=<compiler>`` without specifying a template.

    - Configure the environment as shown in :numref:`Sections %s <NewSiteConfigs>`.

    - Ensure that <compiler> corresponds to a valid compiler for the site. Examples are ``gcc``, ``intel``, ``apple-clang``, ``oneapi``.

    - Add spack packages (also referred to as ``specs``) to the environment using ``spack add``. These packages can be virtual environments described in :numref:`Section %s <EnvironmentsVirtualPackages>` below, or individual packages, e.g. ``esmf`` or ``atlas``. Examples:

        .. code-block:: console

           spack add netcdf-c@4.7.4
           spack add ufs-weather-model-env
           spack add ufs-weather-model-env@1.0.0 +debug
           spack add ewok-env
           spack add mapl@2.12.3 +debug ^esmf@8.3.0 +debug
           spack add mapl@2.12.3 +debug ^esmf@8.3.0 +debug
           ...

2. Use a non-empty template to automatically populate the environment with a vetted combination of packages. See :numref:`Section %s <EnvironmentsTemplates>` for a description of the available templates. Note that additional packages can be added to the templated environment as in the previous step after activating the environment. Example:

    .. code-block:: console

       spack stack create env --template=skylab-1.0.0 --compiler=<compiler>
       ...
       cd envs/env-name
       spack env activate .
       ...
       spack add jedi-tools-env@1.0.0

.. _EnvironmentsAdditionalPackages:

-------------------
Additional packages
-------------------

Packages that are available in the JCSDA/NOAA-EMC spack fork, but not (yet) in the authoritative spack repository are defined in ``spack-ext/repos/spack-stack/packages/``. Users are encouraged to run ``spack info <packagename>`` or open the files in an ASCII editor for more information.

.. _EnvironmentsVirtualPackages:

----------------
Virtual packages
----------------

The purpose of virtual packages is to provide a convenient collection of packages for a given application. These packages are also defined in ``spack-ext/repos/spack-stack/packages/``. Users are encouraged to run ``spack info <packagename>`` or open the files in an ASCII editor for more information.

.. _EnvironmentsTemplates:

---------
Templates
---------

Templates are vetted combinations of packages, i.e. these have been tested to build together. Templates are defined in ``configs/templates/``. Users are encouraged to inspect these templates in an ASCII editor for more information.
