doc/source/Utilities.rst, before:

.. _Utilities:

Miscellaneous utilities
*************************

.. _Duplicate_Checker:

------------------------------
show_duplicate_packages.py
------------------------------

The utility located at util/show_duplicate_packages.py parses the output of ``spack concretize`` and detects duplicates. Usage is as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   spack concretize | ${SPACK_STACK_DIR}/util/show_duplicate_packages.py
   # - OR -
   spack concretize |& tee log.concretize
   ${SPACK_STACK_DIR}/util/show_duplicate_packages.py log.concretize

The ``-d`` option shows only a list of the duplicates, as opposed to the default behavior, which is to show a print-out of all packages with colorized duplicates. In any case, the identification of any duplicates will yield a return code of 1. The ``-i`` option can be invoked multiple times to skip specific package names.

.. _Acorn_Utilities:

------------------------------
Acorn utilities
------------------------------
The util/acorn/ directory provides scripting for spack-stack builds through PBS Pro on Acorn. To use them, copy them into the directory of the Spack environment you wish to build, set the number of nodes to use (make sure ``#PBS -l select=X`` and ``mpiexec -n X`` use the same value for ``X``), and run ``qsub build.pbs``. Note that the temporary directory specification uses a soft link where the referent location depends on the node (this is to avoid compiling directly on LFS, which frequently fails when working with small files as when cloning git repositories). For parallel installations on Acorn, 2-6 is a reasonable range for the number of nodes (MPI proc analogs), and 6-8 is a reasonable number for the number of threads (note that for ``#PBS -l ncpus=Y`` in build.pbs, ``Y`` should match the ``-j`` argument for ``spack install`` in spackinstall.sh).

Commit message:

Add util for checking installation permissions (#652)
* Add utility to check install dir permissions

* Add doco for check_permissions.sh

doc/source/Utilities.rst, after:

.. _Utilities:

Miscellaneous utilities
*************************

.. _Duplicate_Checker:

------------------------------
show_duplicate_packages.py
------------------------------

The utility located at util/show_duplicate_packages.py parses the output of ``spack concretize`` and detects duplicates. Usage is as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   spack concretize | ${SPACK_STACK_DIR}/util/show_duplicate_packages.py
   # - OR -
   spack concretize |& tee log.concretize
   ${SPACK_STACK_DIR}/util/show_duplicate_packages.py log.concretize

The ``-d`` option shows only a list of the duplicates, as opposed to the default behavior, which is to show a print-out of all packages with colorized duplicates. In any case, the identification of any duplicates will yield a return code of 1. The ``-i`` option can be invoked multiple times to skip specific package names.

.. _Permissions_Checker:

------------------------------
check_permissions.sh
------------------------------

The utility located at util/check_permissions.sh can be run inside any spack-stack environment directory intended for multiple users (i.e., on an HPC or cloud platform). It will return errors if the environment directory is inaccessible to non-owning users and groups (i.e., if o+rx not set), as well as if any directories or files have permissions that make them inaccessible to other users.

.. _Acorn_Utilities:

------------------------------
Acorn utilities
------------------------------
The util/acorn/ directory provides scripting for spack-stack builds through PBS Pro on Acorn. To use them, copy them into the directory of the Spack environment you wish to build, set the number of nodes to use (make sure ``#PBS -l select=X`` and ``mpiexec -n X`` use the same value for ``X``), and run ``qsub build.pbs``. Note that the temporary directory specification uses a soft link where the referent location depends on the node (this is to avoid compiling directly on LFS, which frequently fails when working with small files as when cloning git repositories). For parallel installations on Acorn, 2-6 is a reasonable range for the number of nodes (MPI proc analogs), and 6-8 is a reasonable number for the number of threads (note that for ``#PBS -l ncpus=Y`` in build.pbs, ``Y`` should match the ``-j`` argument for ``spack install`` in spackinstall.sh).
